Jumpstart week 4 (#7)
Code-4-Community/learning-resources: docs/jumpstart/week-5.md

functionality and liveliness. If only there was a simple library that can do all of this for us and more.......oh
wait there is. It is called React and it is dope.
 
### What is React?

React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. 
It lets you compose complex User Interfaces from small and isolated pieces of code called “components.” 
React will build you a website out of pure Javascript! It combines HTML tags in the form of JSX, 
CSS files and good old JS logic to produce a masterpiece. 

### Why is React better than plain old HTML/CSS/JS combo?

Well React is just a Javascript Framework, that simplifies web development. 
In addition, React makes it easy for developers to manipulate and work with the DOM. The DOM stands for the Document
Object Model and is what connects the browser and the HTML code. Lastly, React uses a type
of code called **declarative code**. 

Declarative code describes the end result, but does not act as a step-by-step 
guide of how to do it. In practice, that means declarative code is lightweight, easier to understand and change, 

> and has fewer bugs. However, declarative code is error prone which is why we use Typescript 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and has fewer bugs. However, declarative code is error prone, which is why we use Typescript 
```

        <LuckyNum />
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

As you can see we import the component `LuckyNum` from the typescript file we wrote. Once the component is imported
we are able to use it in our new component. The syntax to do this is by creating a tag to indicate where we
want the imported component to be placed.

## Props

Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color and
lucky number. Now John's friend Doug wants to display his lucky number on his profile. John is happy to help and
gives him the `LuckyNum` component we made. However, while John's favorite number is 7, Doug's favorite number is 10, 
so he can't use the `LuckyNum` component! John has a solution: use props.

### What are Props and why use them?

Props are a nice way of making your components reusable. Instead of hard coding all of our data and information
into our components, we can pass in props to give some malleability to our components. A great way to understand
props is to compare them to how functions work. For example, let us print a message to the console.

```
function printHi() {

> 
>     console.log("hi");
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    console.log("hi");
```

}
```

We successfully printed "hi" to the console! Now what if we wanted to print "hey" to the console. We would have
to make a new function because `printHi()` only prints "hi". We would then have to make `printHey()`.

```
function printHey() {

> 
>     console.log("hey");
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    console.log("hey");
```

}
```

We have now printed "hi" and "hey," but it is very repetitive and not efficient. If we wanted to print another
message, we would have to make a new function OR we can just add an argument to a function to print whatever we
want to the console and we would not need to make a new function each time.

```
function printMessage(message) {

> 
>     console.log("Here is your note: " + message);
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    console.log("Here is your note: " + message);
```

}
```

Now we can reuse the function whenever we want to print something to the console! 

### Using Props

This same logic can be applied when we use props. Let us revisit the `LuckyNum` component again.

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

    return (
        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

Right now this component only displays John's lucky number. In order to make this component more reusable so that

> Doug can use it, we must add props. We add props as a argument of the function component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doug can use it, we must add props. We add props as an argument of the function component.
```

 Now that we have access to `props` we can simply display the luckyNum field of the prop object.

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = (props) => (

    <div>
        <h1>My Lucky Number is {props.luckyNumber}</h1>
    </div>

)

export default LuckyNum;
```
Our component is now reusable!! We now can use it on Doug's profile like so:

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is Doug! My favorite color is purple.</h1>
        <LuckyNum luckyNum={1111}/>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

`props` is an object that React makes for each component. When you pass parameters into component declaration 
like we did with `LuckyNum` React adds the parameter as a field of the object `props`. In order to get the field
of the object we simply access the object's field like we would any other object. 

> We can make the `Profile` component more reusable with props. Try now to add props to make `Profile` more
>generic (possible answer below). 

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = (props) => (

    <div>

>         <img src=`${props.profileURL}`/>

Reviewer: Why are we using an interpolated string here rather than just doing `src={some_stuff}`?

Alright. So John is now super happy with his profile and wants to see if other people like his profile as much
as he does. To do this, John adds a like button on his profile. 

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: </button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

John is now perplexed. How can I keep track of the number of likes and how can I keep the number consistent
through each render? Welcome to state management John.

### What is managing state?
React will only re-render when data changes. 
You can think of state as all the data that can change while a user is on a webpage.
In order to make your non-constant data persist we
have to manage the state of our application. We will be managing state in our components using a *react hook*: 
`useState`. There are other ways of managing state in react, but this is a simple and easy way.

### useState Hook
`useState` allows us to add and keep track of data in the state. 

In order to use this hook we must import 

> it from react. We use {} when importing useState because it is not a default export but a named one. We will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it from react. We use `{}` when importing useState because it is not a default export but a named one. We will
```

track of someones message we would write this:

```const [message, setMessage] = useState("Hello World")```

We have initialized `message` to be "Hello World". If we want to change our message we would simply call 
`setMessage` function.

```setMessage("This is our new message")```

Now John can simply implement `useState` into his profile.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => {

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    return(
    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: {profileLikes}</button>
    </div>
    );
}

export default Profile;
```

Now all we have to do is create an `onClick` event to know when to increment the likes.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => {

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

>     //handles incrementing the likes of John's profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
```

    function handleLikes() {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    return(
    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button onClick="handleLikes">Likes: {profileLikes}</button>
    </div>
    );
}

export default Profile;
```

## Typing with Typescript

> As you may have noticed, react is normally implemented with Javascript. TOne of the downsides of using JavaScript is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you may have noticed, React is normally implemented with Javascript. One of the downsides of using JavaScript is 
```

that we do not get type enforcement.

### Why use Typescript in the first place?

When developing an application with a lot of contributors it is important to have some sort of structure to 

> your code. Typing (the act of giving our code data types) allows us to not introduce errors and mess up a project 
> with other contributors on it. Typescript gives us the functionality of typing our components and data! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your code. Typing (the act of giving our code data types) prevents us from introducing errors and messing up a project 
with other contributors on it. Typescript gives us the functionality of typing our components and data! 
```

### How to type in React

It is as easy as it seems. For example let's add a type the `useState` that John used for likes on his profile and the
`useState` for our message example:

```
const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState<Number>(0);
const [message, setMessage] = useState<String>("Hello World")
```

When adding types to components, we have to make sure to type the props that we are taking in (if applicable). The way
we do this is with an interface with the name and the type of the prop we are expecting. For example let's 
take the `LuckyNum` component as an example.

```
import React from 'react'; 

/*
    We specify luckyNumber as readonly because we do not need to modify
    it anywhere in our component. All we need is to be able to read the value.
*/

interface LuckyNumProps {
    readonly luckyNumber: number;
}

/*
    React.FC = react functional component
*/

const LuckyNum: React.FC<LuckyNumProps> = (props) => (

    <div>
        <h1>My Lucky Number is {props.luckyNumber}</h1>
    </div>

)

export default LuckyNum;
```

## Material UI: a lifesaver

We all hate having to style our components for hours on end to make them look beautiful and actually work

> properly. Do not worry because Material UI is here to save the day!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properly. Do not worry, because Material UI is here to save the day!
```

### What is Material UI?

> Material UI is a popular framework in react. It is a library filled with pre-styled components that are super

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Material UI is a popular framework in React. It is a library filled with pre-styled components that are super
```

helpful. There are many different components that basically replace the need for any pure html components in
your project. Each of the pre-made components will save you a ton of time on styling and formatting.

### How can I use it?

All you have to do is import any component you want from the list found 

> [here](https://material-ui.com/components/box/). For example let us replace the html `<button>` for John's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[here](https://material-ui.com/components/box/). For example, let us replace the html `<button>` for John's 
```

likes with a Material UI Button component.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';
import { Button } from '@material-ui/core'

const Profile = () => (

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <Button onClick={()=>handleLikes}>Likes: {profileLikes}</Button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

### Styling Material UI Components

> If you wanted to style the components in Material UI a little more to tailor your specific needs you can do that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wanted to style the components in Material UI a little more to tailor your specific needs, you can do that!
```

> For example let us make the newly imported Button component on John's profile to be black.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let us make the newly imported Button component on John's profile black.
```
